chore(docs): news article for clustertool v2 (#34211)
truecharts/charts: website/src/content/docs/news/2025-04-10-clustertool-v2.md

---
slug: "news/clustertool-v2"
title: "Clustertool v2"
authors: [alfi0812]
date: 2025-04-10
tags:
  - "2025"
---

## New Clustertool v2 Launches with NGINX Backend and Major Upgrades

The highly anticipated Clustertool v2 is officially released, bringing a host of improvements and a fundamental architectural shift:

> a full move to an NGINX backend.
> Designed for improved performance, cleaner configuration, and upstream alignment,
> Clustertool v2 is a significant step forward for Kubernetes-based cluster management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a full move to an NGINX backend.
- Designed for improved performance, cleaner configuration, and upstream alignment,

Clustertool v2 is a significant step forward for Kubernetes-based cluster management.
```

    //kustomization.yaml
    apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Kustomization
    metadata:
      name: helm-repos
      namespace: flux-system
    resources:
      - bjw-s.yaml
      - cloudnative-pg.yaml
      - home-ops-mirror.yaml
      - jetstack.yaml
      - kustomization.yaml
      - prometheus-community.yaml
      - spegel.yaml
      - truecharts.yaml
    ```

  - Added home-operations [OCI mirror](https://github.com/home-operations/charts-mirror):

    ```yaml
    //home-ops-mirror.yaml
    ---
    # yaml-language-server: $schema=https://kubernetes-schemas.pages.dev/source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/helmrepository_v1.json
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1
    kind: HelmRepository
    metadata:
      name: home-ops-mirror
      namespace: flux-system
    spec:
      type: oci
      interval: 2h
      url: oci://ghcr.io/home-operations/charts-mirror
    ```

  - Please compare your [Repositories](https://github.com/truecharts/public/tree/master/clustertool/embed/generic/root/repositories/helm) with this template.
  - Charts such as Cilium, Metrics Server, Node-Feature-Discovery, Longhorn, Metallb, and OpenEBS are now
    pulled via an OCI mirror

>   - Thanks to the home-operations team for providing and maintaining the [OCI mirror](https://github.com/home-operations/charts-mirror) 🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- 🔥 Traefik Removal:
  - Both Traefik and traefik-crds are no longer included and need to be removed
  - [Ingress configurations](/guides/ingress/nginx/) now require annotation updates to work with NGINX
  - [ingressClassName](/guides/ingress/) is recommended to be set for all ingresses. Additionally, you will need to disable the traefik integration.
- 🔄 IngressClass Management:
  - New support for using either internal or external ingress classes
  - Clusterenv now includes:
    - `NGINX_INTERNAL_IP` has been added
    - `NGINX_EXTERNAL_IP` has been added
    - `TRAEFIK_IP` has been removed
- 🧪 Upstream Chart Migrations:
  - Charts such as CloudNativePG, Cert-Manager, and Kube-Prometheus-Stack are now managed upstream
  - 🧭 Check the [Quick Start Guide](/guides/) for integration examples

## Clustertool as a CI Platform for Chart Testing

With v2, Clustertool is now also being adopted internally as a replacement for the legacy ChartTool,
which was previously used to test and release charts but its code was never released publicly.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Special Thanks

Thank to the home-operations team for providing and maintaining their [OCI mirror](https://github.com/home-operations/charts-mirror) 🎉

This ensures every one of us, can fully use the power of OCI-backed Helm-charts in our clusters!
```

---
slug: "news/clustertool-v2"
title: "Clustertool v2"
authors: [alfi0812]
date: 2025-04-10
tags:
  - "2025"

> ---
> 
> ## New Clustertool v2 Launches with NGINX Backend and Major Upgrades

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

Just one year ago, we were fully dedicated to building TrueNAS SCALE Apps and where forced to move forward to greener pastures. Now, only a year later we've moved to being fully compatible with nearly every kubernetes platform out there, while still offering a staggering amount of Helm Charts.

After long consideration, we've decided to stop providing forks/mirrors of complicated charts such as Traefik, Prometheus and so forth. With SCALE gone, we simply don't need to anymore and users are free to directly consume the upstream charts instead!

This has also allowed us to complete reevaluate which software we're using to back the ClusterTool defaults. And hence, ClusterTool V2 is born!

## New Clustertool v2 Launches with NGINX Backend and Major Upgrades
```

---
slug: "news/clustertool-v2"
title: "Clustertool v2"

> authors: [alfi0812]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors: [alfi0812, privatepuffin]
```

- 🧪 Upstream Chart Migrations:
  - Charts such as CloudNativePG, Cert-Manager, and Kube-Prometheus-Stack are now managed upstream
  - 🧭 Check the [Quick Start Guide](/guides/) for integration examples

## Clustertool as a CI Platform for Chart Testing

With v2, Clustertool is now also being adopted internally as a replacement for the legacy ChartTool,

> which was previously used for CI-driven Helm chart testing but never released publicly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which was previously used to test and release charts but its code was never released publicly.
```

The new Clustertool setup integrates seamlessly into internal pipelines, offering:

- Automated chart linting and validation
- Cluster spin-up for integration tests
- Support for upstream and OCI-based charts

> - Better reproducibility across environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Yeet, its just one small part of our ci pipeline and none of these things are handled by it

> This move simplifies the CI ecosystem and ensures Clustertool becomes the single point of truth for cluster testing workflows going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Too much
